# **A Comparative Analysis of Pokémon Raid Battle Mechanics for Simulator Implementation**

## **I. Introduction**

This report provides a detailed breakdown and comparative analysis of
Raid Battle mechanics across different Pokémon platforms, specifically
the Pokémon Trading Card Game (TCG) -- encompassing both its official
rules and prevalent community-developed formats -- and Pokémon GO. The
primary objective is to establish a structured rubric of these concepts
to facilitate the design and implementation of a versatile online Raid
Battle simulator. The analysis will cover phases, turn mechanics, player
and Raid Boss options, and distinct features, offering a foundational
understanding for developers.

## **II. Pokémon TCG Raid Battle Mechanics (Official Rules)**

The official Pokémon TCG Raid Battle format is designed as a cooperative
experience where up to four players team up against a single, powerful
Boss Pokémon.^1^ This format simplifies some standard TCG complexities
to focus on a streamlined, team-based challenge.

### **A. Setup and Core Components**

To engage in an official TCG Raid Battle, specific materials are
required beyond players\' individual Pokémon cards.

1.  **Players and Pokémon:** Four players are needed, with each player
    > contributing two Pokémon cards (no Trainer or Energy cards are
    > brought by players initially).^1^ These form Pokémon pairs, with
    > one Active and one Benched Pokémon per player.^2^

2.  **Game Materials** ^1^**:**

    -   One Boss Pokémon card (oversized Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon
        > VMAX).^2^

    -   One deck of 20 Boss Attack cards.

    -   One deck of 5 Cheer cards.

    -   Four Knock Out (KO) counters.

    -   One playmat.

    -   Damage counters.

    -   One coin.

3.  **Boss Level Determination:** The Boss Pokémon\'s level (1, 2, or 3)
    > is determined by summing the base damage of the highest-damage
    > attack from each player\'s chosen Pokémon pair.^2^

    -   250-390 total damage: Level 1 Boss.

    -   400-590 total damage: Level 2 Boss.

    -   Over 600 total damage: Level 3 Boss.

    -   If the sum is below 250, players are advised to choose stronger
        > Pokémon.^2^ This scaling mechanism ensures the challenge is
        > appropriate for the collective power of the players\' chosen
        > Pokémon, preventing overly easy or difficult encounters based
        > on initial Pokémon selection.

4.  **Turn Order:** Player turn order (Player 1 through Player 4) is
    > determined at the start.^2^

### **B. Player Turn Mechanics**

Player turns are structured and follow a set order, with a specific rule
for players whose Pokémon are Knocked Out.

1.  **Standard Player Turn (No KO\'d Pokémon)** ^2^**:**

    -   **Retreat (Optional):** The player may retreat their Active
        > Pokémon. With only one Benched Pokémon per player, this action
        > swaps the Active and Benched Pokémon.

    -   **Attack:** The player chooses an attack from their Active
        > Pokémon to use against the Boss Pokémon. Damage is dealt
        > directly to the Boss. Players cannot attack other players\'
        > Pokémon.

2.  **Player Turn (KO\'d Active Pokémon)** ^2^**:**

    -   If a player\'s Active Pokémon is Knocked Out, they take their
        > turn *first* in the collective player turn sequence,
        > irrespective of the established order.

    -   **Action: Cheer:** The player performs only one action: they
        > draw one Cheer card from the Cheer deck, apply its effect, and
        > their turn ends. They do not retreat or attack. This
        > prioritization ensures that players with KO\'d Pokémon have an
        > immediate opportunity to contribute through support actions.

3.  **End of Collective Player Turns and Revival** ^2^**:**

    -   After all four players (or Pokémon pairs) have taken their
        > turns, any player who Cheered during that collective turn has
        > their Knocked Out Pokémon revived.

    -   Revival removes all damage counters from the Pokémon and the KO
        > counter. The KO counter is then flipped to its red side and
        > set aside to track the total KOs against the player team for
        > loss conditions. This revival mechanic is crucial for player
        > endurance, but the limited number of KOs allowed before losing
        > maintains pressure.

    -   Pokémon Knocked Out by self-inflicted damage during a player\'s
        > own turn remain KO\'d until the end of the *next* collective
        > player turn, as their player would not have had the chance to
        > Cheer in the current turn cycle.^2^

4.  **GX Attacks:** Each player may use one GX attack per Raid
    > Battle.^2^

5.  **Board State:** Each player\'s board (Active and Benched Pokémon)
    > is separate. Effects targeting \"Active Pokémon\" or \"Benched
    > Pokémon\" only affect the Pokémon of the player using the attack
    > or Ability.^2^ This simplifies targeting and prevents cross-player
    > interference or unintended benefits from abilities not designed
    > for a multi-player cooperative format. The player\'s role is
    > largely defined by the two Pokémon they bring, limiting strategic
    > depth compared to formats using full decks, but making the game
    > accessible.

### **C. Raid Boss Turn Mechanics**

The Raid Boss\'s turn is driven by a dedicated Boss Attack deck.

1.  **Drawing Boss Attack Cards** ^2^**:** The player designated to
    > control the Boss (or a Digital Raid Battle Assistant ^1^) draws a
    > Boss Attack card and places it on the playmat.

2.  **Resolving Boss Attack Cards** ^2^**:**

    -   The card\'s instructions are followed. It specifies which of the
        > Boss\'s three numbered attacks to use, which player\'s Active
        > Pokémon is targeted, and whether another Boss Attack card
        > should be drawn.

    -   If the card instructs to draw another, the process repeats.
        > However, a new card is not drawn if the maximum number of
        > attacks for the Boss\'s current Level has been reached (Level
        > 1: max 2 attacks; Level 2: max 3; Level 3: max 4).^2^ This cap
        > prevents an unlucky series of \"draw another card\" results
        > from making the Boss overwhelmingly powerful in a single turn,
        > especially at lower levels.

3.  **Targeting and Damage** ^2^**:**

    -   Boss attacks typically damage the targeted player\'s Active
        > Pokémon.

    -   If a player\'s Pokémon takes damage equal to or exceeding its
        > HP, it is Knocked Out, and a KO counter is placed on it.

    -   If a Boss Attack card targets a Pokémon that is already Knocked
        > Out, the card is discarded with no effect, and another card is
        > drawn in its place (this draw does not count towards the
        > per-turn attack limit if the Boss Attack deck needs to be
        > reshuffled).

4.  **Boss Attack Deck Reshuffle** ^2^**:** If the Boss Attack deck runs
    > out of cards, the discard pile is shuffled to form a new deck.

5.  **End of Boss Turn** ^2^**:** Once the Boss has used its final
    > attack for the turn (or reached its attack limit), all Boss Attack
    > cards on the playmat are discarded. The players then begin their
    > collective turn. The Boss\'s actions are entirely dictated by the
    > Boss Attack deck, leading to a deterministic, albeit potentially
    > varied, sequence of actions based on card draws.

### **D. Cheer Actions and Cheer Cards**

Cheer cards provide players with crucial support options, especially
when their Pokémon are Knocked Out.

1.  **Activation:** Drawn by a player whose Active Pokémon is KO\'d, as
    > their turn\'s action.^2^

2.  **Cheer Card Deck:** Consists of 5 unique, numbered cards.^1^

3.  **Usage Limit:** A maximum of 3 out of the 5 Cheer cards can be used
    > in a single Raid Battle.^2^ This limitation requires players to be
    > strategic about when to use these powerful effects, as they cannot
    > rely on them indefinitely.

4.  **Effects** ^2^**:**

    -   Card 1/5: Choose one Pokémon. Its attacks deal double damage
        > this turn.

    -   Card 2/5: Heal 80 damage from each player\'s Active Pokémon.

    -   Card 3/5: Heal all damage from one Pokémon.

    -   Card 4/5: The Boss Pokémon cannot play more than one Boss Attack
        > card during its next turn.

    -   Card 5/5: Attacks from all players\' Active Pokémon deal 50 more
        > damage this turn.

### **E. Boss Pokémon Characteristics and Attack System**

Boss Pokémon are unique and powerful entities in this format.

1.  **Boss Cards** ^2^**:** Typically oversized Pokémon VMAX cards
    > featuring Dynamax or Gigantamax Pokémon. They possess very high HP
    > (often in the thousands) and three distinct attacks. These attacks
    > are usually presented in colored boxes (yellow, orange, red) and
    > generally increase in power.^2^

2.  **Special Properties** ^2^**:** Boss Pokémon cards lack Weakness,
    > Resistance, Retreat Cost, specific attack energy costs (their
    > attacks are triggered by Boss Attack Cards, not by players
    > attaching energy to the Boss), and any Rule Boxes. This immunity
    > to standard TCG Weaknesses and Resistances simplifies damage
    > calculations against the Boss and shifts player Pokémon selection
    > towards raw damage output rather than type-matching, unless
    > optional rules are invoked.

3.  **Boss Levels and Attack Limits** ^2^**:**

    -   Level 1 (one star): Max 2 attacks per turn.

    -   Level 2 (two stars): Max 3 attacks per turn.

    -   Level 3 (three stars): Max 4 attacks per turn. The scaling of
        > maximum attacks per turn with Boss Level ensures that more
        > powerful Bosses also have the potential for more actions,
        > appropriately increasing the challenge.

4.  **Boss Attack Card Deck Logic** ^2^**:**

    -   The 20-card deck is structured to provide a balanced
        > distribution of attacks.

    -   An equal number of cards target each of the four player
        > positions.

    -   Cards initiating Attack 1 (typically weaker) are more common
        > than Attack 2, which are more common than Attack 3 (typically
        > stronger).

    -   The likelihood of a \"Draw Another Card\" effect is higher on
        > cards for weaker attacks:

        -   Attack 1 cards: Always instruct to draw another card.

        -   Attack 2 cards: 50% chance to draw another card.

        -   Attack 3 cards: 25% chance to draw another card. This
            > structure creates a probabilistic behavior where the Boss
            > is more likely to perform multiple weaker attacks or a
            > single stronger attack before its turn ends, providing a
            > degree of predictability while still maintaining an
            > element of chance.

### **F. Win and Loss Conditions**

The outcome of the Raid Battle is determined by one of two conditions:

1.  **Player Win Condition** ^2^**:** The players win if the Boss
    > Pokémon is Knocked Out (its HP is reduced to 0).

2.  **Player Loss Condition** ^2^**:** The players lose if their Pokémon
    > have been Knocked Out a total of four times collectively. The same
    > Pokémon can be KO\'d multiple times, and each instance counts
    > towards this total, tracked by the KO counters. Effects that would
    > make a Pokémon yield more than one Prize card in a standard game
    > have no bearing here; only the number of KOs matters.^2^

### **G. Optional Modifications for Difficulty/Experience**

The rules allow for modifications to tailor the experience ^2^:

1.  **Ignore Attack Text:** Only use the base damage of all attacks,
    > ignoring additional effects. This simplifies gameplay for newer
    > players.

2.  **Apply Weakness and Resistance:** Player Pokémon can apply Weakness
    > and Resistance when attacking the Boss or taking damage from it.
    > This adds a layer of standard TCG strategy. These options allow
    > groups to adjust the game\'s complexity and challenge level.

## **III. Pokémon TCG Raid Battle Mechanics (Common Community/Alternate \"Raid Format\")**

Distinct from the official rules, a popular community-driven \"Raid
Format\" offers a more complex and strategic cooperative TCG experience.
This format leverages players\' standard TCG decks and introduces unique
mechanics for battling a powerful Raid Boss.^3^

### **A. Core Distinctions from Official Rules**

This community format diverges significantly:

1.  **Player Decks:** Players use their own standard, self-constructed
    > TCG decks (typically 60 cards), including Pokémon, Trainer cards,
    > and Energy cards.^3^ This immediately introduces a vast range of
    > strategic possibilities and card interactions far exceeding the
    > official version\'s two Pokémon per player. Simulating this
    > variant requires a comprehensive TCG engine capable of handling
    > the full spectrum of card effects.

2.  **Victory Condition:** The primary objective for players is to
    > deplete the Raid Boss\'s *deck* by placing its cards into the Lost
    > Zone, rather than reducing its HP to zero.^3^ The HP printed on
    > the Boss card is generally disregarded.^3^

3.  **Raid Boss Deck:** The Boss uses its own deck of cards (e.g., 60
    > cards), which becomes its \"lifeblood\" that players aim to
    > mill.^3^

### **B. Setup**

Setting up for this Raid Format follows some standard TCG procedures
with raid-specific adjustments:

1.  **Players:** Typically accommodates up to four players.^3^

2.  **Player Setup** ^3^**:** Each player sets up as they would for a
    > standard TCG game: drawing a 7-card hand, setting aside Prize
    > cards, placing Active and Benched Pokémon. However, there is no
    > coin flip to determine who goes first; the players *always* take
    > the first turn.

3.  **Raid Boss Setup** ^3^**:** The Raid Boss is represented by a card
    > (often a jumbo card or a standard card designated as the Boss). It
    > does not have a starting hand and does not set up any Prize cards.
    > It has its own deck.

### **C. Player Turn Mechanics**

Player turns in this format have unique cooperative elements and
first-turn allowances:

1.  **Simultaneous Turns (Preparation Phase)** ^3^**:** Players are
    > described as taking their turns simultaneously in preparation to
    > attack the Raid Boss. This likely means players can discuss and
    > sequence their actions in a coordinated fashion during their
    > collective turn phase.

2.  **First Turn Special Rules** ^3^**:** During their first turn only,
    > players benefit from special rules:

    -   They may evolve Pokémon as if the old Stadium card \"Broken
        > Time-Space\" were in play (allowing evolution on the first
        > turn a Pokémon comes into play).

    -   They may play Supporter cards.

    -   They can attack the Raid Boss.

3.  **Shared Supporter Plays** ^3^**:** A crucial cooperative mechanic
    > involves a shared limit on Supporter cards. For example, in a
    > four-player raid, the team collectively can play up to four
    > Supporter cards during their collective turn. This means one
    > player could play multiple Supporters if the team total is not
    > exceeded, but doing so would reduce the number of Supporters
    > available to their allies.

4.  **Targeted Supporters** ^3^**:** Players can play Supporter cards
    > from their hand to affect their allies\' Pokémon or game state
    > (e.g., using a healing Supporter on a teammate\'s damaged
    > Pokémon). This shared resource pool and the ability to directly
    > aid teammates necessitate a high degree of communication and
    > strategic planning to optimize Supporter usage for the entire
    > team.

5.  **Damage Accumulation** ^3^**:** As players complete their
    > individual actions and attacks within the collective turn, the
    > total damage dealt to the Raid Boss is tallied. This accumulated
    > damage is not applied to the Boss immediately but is held until
    > *after* the Raid Boss completes its turn.

### **D. Raid Boss Turn Mechanics**

The Raid Boss\'s turn is characterized by potent, somewhat unpredictable
actions fueled by its own deck:

1.  **Card Draw** ^3^**:** At the beginning of its turn, the Raid Boss
    > draws one card plus an additional card for each player
    > participating in the raid. For instance, in a four-player raid,
    > the Boss would draw five cards.

2.  **Card Resolution** ^3^**:**

    -   The Boss *must* resolve every card it draws, one at a time, in
        > the order drawn.

    -   Critically, any textual requirements or once-per-turn
        > limitations on these cards (like for Supporters or specific
        > Abilities) are considered automatically met for the Boss.^4^
        > If the Boss draws multiple Supporter cards, it plays all of
        > them.

    -   Energy cards drawn are immediately attached to the Boss. All
        > Energy attached to the Boss is treated as basic Rainbow
        > Energy, providing every type of Energy simultaneously.^3^ This
        > allows the Boss to easily meet energy costs for any of its
        > attacks.

    -   Pokémon Tool cards or Stadium cards drawn by the Boss are
        > immediately put into play, replacing any previous Tool on the
        > Boss or Stadium in play.

3.  **Boss Attack** ^3^**:**

    -   After resolving all drawn cards, the Boss chooses one of its
        > attacks for which it has the necessary Energy (now Rainbow
        > Energy). The selection of this attack is *random* from its
        > available moves.

    -   The Boss then discards Energy from itself equal to the attack\'s
        > cost. (A common house rule or variant suggests rolling a die
        > to determine how much Energy, if any, is discarded ^5^). The
        > combination of drawing multiple cards, automatically resolving
        > them with fulfilled conditions, and having universal energy
        > access can lead to exceptionally powerful and swingy turns for
        > the Boss, making it a formidable and unpredictable opponent.

### **E. Damage Application and Winning/Losing**

The resolution of damage and the conditions for victory or defeat are
unique to this format:

1.  **Boss Takes Damage (Deck Milling)** ^3^**:** After the Raid Boss
    > has completed all its actions for the turn (including its attack),
    > the total damage accumulated by the players during their preceding
    > turn is applied.

2.  **Damage to Lost Zone Conversion** ^3^**:** The way damage
    > translates to defeating the Boss is central:

    -   The total damage dealt by players is divided by a specific
        > factor, typically (Number of Players x 10), and then rounded
        > down. For example, in a four-player raid, this divisor would
        > be 40.^3^

    -   The resulting number is the quantity of cards the Boss must move
        > from the top of its deck to the Lost Zone.

    -   A simpler variant mentioned is a flat \"40 damage = 1 card to
        > the Lost Zone\".^4^ This \"damage conversion rate\" is a
        > significant balancing lever for the game\'s difficulty and
        > pace; a higher damage threshold per card milled makes the game
        > more challenging for players.

    -   If any damage remains after this calculation (i.e., not enough
        > to mill a full card), this \"leftover\" damage is noted as
        > remaining \"on\" the Boss.^3^ It is presumed this carried-over
        > damage is added to the players\' damage total in the
        > subsequent turn before the division occurs again. Precise
        > handling of this carry-over damage is vital for accurate
        > simulation.

3.  **Player Win Condition** ^3^**:** The players achieve victory if the
    > Raid Boss\'s deck is empty and it has no more cards to place in
    > the Lost Zone.

4.  **Player Knocked Out and Loss** ^3^**:**

    -   When a player\'s Pokémon (Active or Benched) is Knocked Out by
        > the Boss, that player must take Prize cards from their own
        > Prize card pile as if the Boss were their opponent. The number
        > of Prizes taken corresponds to the value of the KO\'d Pokémon
        > (e.g., 3 Prizes for a Pokémon VMAX).

    -   Once a player has taken all of their Prize cards, they are
        > eliminated from the game.

5.  **Boss Win Condition** ^3^**:** The Raid Boss wins if all
    > participating players are eliminated from the game (i.e., all
    > players have taken all their Prize cards). This creates an
    > attrition-based dynamic: players race to deplete the Boss\'s deck
    > resource before the Boss forces them to deplete their own Prize
    > card resources.

### **F. Advanced/Optional Community Modifications**

The community has developed further modifications to increase challenge
and complexity, often shared in online forums ^5^:

1.  **Scaled Boss Resources:** Boss draw power, energy retention after
    > attacks, ability to keep Stadiums in play, or hold multiple
    > Pokémon Tools can be tied to the collective \"Combat Power\" (CP,
    > a fan-defined metric for deck strength) of the players\' decks.

2.  **Reinforcement Deck** ^5^**:** This is a significant addition where
    > the Boss can summon \"Reinforcement\" Pokémon from a separate
    > deck.

    -   These Reinforcements act as additional active combatants for the
        > players to deal with.

    -   They typically need to be defeated (based on their own HP)
        > before players can effectively damage the Boss\'s deck again.

    -   While Reinforcements are active, the Boss might not attack
        > directly; instead, it could recover cards from its Lost Zone
        > back into its deck, prolonging the game.

    -   Reinforcements might share the Boss\'s energy pool and attack if
        > the Boss has sufficient energy. These advanced rules
        > demonstrate the format\'s adaptability and the community\'s
        > desire for customizable, high-stakes challenges. They
        > represent potential modules for a sophisticated simulator.

## **IV. Pokémon GO Raid Battle Mechanics (Standard Gym Raids)**

Pokémon GO Raid Battles are cooperative multiplayer events where
Trainers team up to defeat a powerful Boss Pokémon that has taken over a
Gym.^7^ These battles occur in real-time and emphasize quick actions and
strategic Pokémon matchups.

### **A. Raid Initiation and Access**

Accessing and participating in Pokémon GO Raids involves several steps
and specific items:

1.  **Raid Eggs and Tiers** ^7^**:**

    -   Raids are heralded by an Egg appearing atop a Gym, with a
        > countdown timer to its hatch.

    -   The Egg\'s appearance (color/pattern) and accompanying tier
        > number (1-5, Mega, Elite, Primal) indicate the difficulty and
        > type of Raid Boss.

        -   Pink (Normal Egg icon, Tier 1 & 2): Easiest, often soloable.

        -   Yellow (Rare Egg icon, Tier 3): Moderately difficult, may
            > require a few trainers.

        -   Purple/Dark (Legendary Egg icon, Tier 5): Feature Legendary
            > Pokémon, require a coordinated group.

        -   Mega Egg icon (Mega Raids): Feature Mega-Evolved Pokémon,
            > difficulty similar to Tier 5.

        -   Shadow Raids: Gyms taken over by Team GO Rocket, featuring
            > Shadow Pokémon with a purple flame visual.^9^

        -   Elite Raids: Special, timed in-person only raids with very
            > rare Pokémon, hatching at specific times.^9^

        -   Primal Raids: Feature Primal Reversion Pokémon (e.g., Primal
            > Kyogre, Primal Groudon), high difficulty.

2.  **Raid Duration** ^7^**:** Once an Egg hatches, the Raid Boss is
    > typically available to battle for 45 minutes. This duration can
    > vary during special events.

3.  **Raid Passes** ^7^**:** A Raid Pass is required to join a battle.

    -   **Free Raid Pass:** One can be obtained daily by spinning a
        > Gym\'s Photo Disc. Only one can be held at a time.

    -   **Premium Battle Pass:** Purchased from the in-game shop; allows
        > participation in more raids.

    -   **Remote Raid Pass:** Purchased; allows trainers to join raids
        > remotely from the map screen or via invitations from friends.
        > There are limits on how many can be held and used daily for
        > remote raids.

    -   **EX Raid Pass (Historical):** Formerly, these were special
        > invitations to exclusive raids, less common in the current
        > game structure. The ephemeral nature of raids, tied to
        > real-world timers and locations (though eased by Remote Raid
        > Passes), and the gating mechanism of Raid Passes, create a
        > distinct engagement model focused on timely participation.

4.  **Joining a Lobby** ^7^**:**

    -   Trainers can join a public lobby or a private lobby using a
        > group code.

    -   A lobby can hold up to 20 trainers.

    -   A countdown timer (typically 120 seconds from when the first
        > trainer joins) precedes the battle. If all trainers in the
        > lobby tap the \"Ready\" button, the timer can skip to 10
        > seconds.^7^

### **B. Player and Battle Party Configuration**

Strategic preparation before entering the battle is crucial:

1.  **Team Selection** ^7^**:** Each trainer selects a team of up to six
    > Pokémon. The game may suggest a team based on the Raid Boss\'s
    > type, but players can customize their lineup.

2.  **Mega Evolution** ^9^**:** A trainer can Mega Evolve one of their
    > Pokémon before or during the lobby phase. A Mega-Evolved Pokémon
    > provides an attack boost to all other trainers\' Pokémon in the
    > raid, as well as a type-specific boost to moves matching its
    > type(s).

3.  **Party Play** ^9^**:** Trainers can form an in-game \"Party\" with
    > up to three friends before joining a raid. Being in a Party
    > enables the \"Party Power\" mechanic during the battle. The
    > emphasis on selecting appropriate counters with effective move
    > types and considering Mega Evolutions underscores that pre-battle
    > strategy significantly influences success, especially in
    > higher-tier raids.^10^

### **C. Real-Time Battle Loop**

Pokémon GO Raid Battles are dynamic, real-time encounters.

1.  **Battle Timer Per Attempt:** Each attempt to defeat the Raid Boss
    > is governed by a strict time limit, which varies by raid tier. If
    > this timer expires before the Boss is defeated, that attempt
    > fails. However, players can re-enter the battle if the overall
    > 45-minute raid duration at the Gym has not expired.^7^\
    > **Table GO-1: Pokémon GO Raid Tier Battle Timers and Boss HP**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Raid Tier**           **Boss HP**             **Battle Attempt Time
                                                  Limit (seconds)**
  ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  Tier 1                  600                     180

  Tier 3                  3,600                   180

  Tier 5 (Legendary /     15,000                  300
  Ultra Wormhole)                                 

  Mega Raid               9,000                   300

  Elite Raid              20,000                  300

  Primal Raid             22,500                  300

  Legendary Mega Raid     22,500                  300
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

\*Source: Adapted from. Note: Tier 2 and Tier 4 raids have largely been
phased out or absorbed into these categories.\*

2.  **Player Actions** ^7^**:**

    -   **Fast Attacks:** Performed by tapping the screen. These deal
        > damage and generate energy for Charged Attacks.

    -   **Charged Attacks:** Once the energy meter is full, the Charged
        > Attack button becomes active. Tapping it unleashes a more
        > powerful move.

    -   **Dodging:** Swiping left or right when the Boss attacks can
        > reduce incoming damage. The effectiveness of a dodge can
        > depend on timing and the specific attack.^12^ A successful
        > dodge typically reduces damage taken by a significant
        > percentage.

3.  **Raid Boss Behavior (General):**

    -   The Raid Boss uses its own Fast and Charged Attacks at
        > intervals. It does not actively dodge player attacks.

    -   Standard Gym Raid Bosses do not typically have complex scripted
        > phases like shields or multiple extra actions seen in other
        > Pokémon game raid systems (e.g., Tera Raids in Pokémon
        > Scarlet/Violet ^14^). Their threat comes from high stats and
        > powerful attacks.

    -   **Shadow Raids Exception:** Shadow Raid Bosses can become
        > \"Enraged\" during the battle, significantly boosting their
        > Attack and Defense. Trainers can use Purified Gems (up to five
        > collectively by the group, with up to eight Gems usable in
        > total by all trainers if needed) to subdue the Enraged Boss,
        > temporarily removing its stat boosts.^9^

4.  **Fainting and Rejoining (\"Relobbying\")** ^7^**:**

    -   If all six of a trainer\'s Pokémon faint, they are temporarily
        > out of the battle.

    -   The trainer can choose to revive and heal their Pokémon using
        > items from their bag and then rejoin the ongoing battle
        > without using another Raid Pass, provided the raid is still
        > active at the Gym.

    -   This process of \"relobbying\" takes time, during which the
        > trainer is not dealing damage. Minimizing relobby time is
        > crucial for maximizing overall damage output in difficult
        > raids.^15^ The real-time nature of these battles demands
        > constant player input and reaction (tapping for attacks,
        > timing Charged Attacks, swiping to dodge). This contrasts
        > sharply with the turn-based, deliberate play of TCG raids.
        > Simulating this requires modeling not just the outcome of
        > actions but also their timing and frequency, or making
        > assumptions about player skill and reaction speed.

### **D. Key Features and Modifiers**

Several mechanics can influence damage output and battle dynamics:

1.  **Party Power** ^9^**:**

    -   Available when trainers participate in a raid as part of an
        > in-game \"Party.\"

    -   A Party Power meter fills as Party members use Fast Attacks. The
        > more members in the Party (up to 4), the faster it charges.

    -   Once full, a trainer can tap the Party Power button to make
        > their *next Charged Attack* deal double damage. This is a
        > significant, coordinated damage boost.

2.  **Weather Boosts** ^16^**:**

    -   The game\'s real-world weather system can boost certain Pokémon
        > types.

    -   During weather conditions that favor a move\'s type (e.g., Sunny
        > weather for Fire-type moves), that move deals 20% additional
        > damage.

3.  **STAB (Same Type Attack Bonus)** ^17^**:**

    -   If a Pokémon uses an attack that matches one of its own types,
        > the attack receives a 20% damage bonus.

4.  **Type Effectiveness** ^10^**:**

    -   Super Effective attacks deal 1.6× normal damage.

    -   Double Super Effective attacks (e.g., a Rock-type move against a
        > Fire/Flying-type Pokémon) deal 1.6×1.6=2.56× normal damage.

    -   Resisted attacks deal 0.625× normal damage.

    -   Double Resisted attacks deal 0.625×0.625≈0.39× normal damage.
        > *(Note: These are the generally accepted current multipliers.
        > Some older sources might list 1.4x for SE and 0.714x for
        > NVE)*.

5.  **Friendship Damage Bonus** ^15^**:**

    -   Battling with friends in the same raid lobby provides a passive
        > damage bonus. This bonus scales with Friendship level:

        -   Good Friend: +3% damage

        -   Great Friend: +5% damage

        -   Ultra Friend: +7% damage

        -   Best Friend: +10% damage Accurate calculation of these
            > potentially stacking damage modifiers (Party Power,
            > Weather, STAB, Type Effectiveness, Friendship) is
            > fundamental for any Pokémon GO raid simulator aiming to
            > predict battle outcomes or required trainer numbers.

### **E. Victory and Post-Battle Sequence**

Successfully defeating the Raid Boss leads to rewards and a capture
opportunity:

1.  **Victory Condition** ^7^**:** The Raid Boss\'s HP is reduced to
    > zero before the battle attempt timer expires.

2.  **Rewards** ^7^**:** Upon victory, trainers receive various items,
    > which can include:

    -   Rare Candies, Golden Razz Berries, Fast TMs, Charged TMs.

    -   Potions and Revives.

    -   Stardust.

    -   Trainer XP.

    -   Mega Energy (if it was a Mega Raid) or Primal Energy (if it was
        > a Primal Raid).

3.  **Bonus Challenge: Capture Phase** ^7^**:**

    -   Trainers get a chance to catch the defeated Raid Boss.

    -   A limited number of Premier Balls are awarded for the capture
        > attempt. Only Premier Balls can be used.

    -   The number of Premier Balls received depends on several factors:

**Table GO-2: Pokémon GO Premier Ball Allocation Factors**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Factor**              **Premier Balls Awarded **Notes**
                          (Typical)**             
  ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  Boss Defeated (Base)    +6                      

  Damage Contribution     +0 to +4                Based on percentage of
  (Individual)                                    total damage dealt by
                                                  the trainer

  Gym Control             +2                      If the trainer\'s team
                                                  controls the Gym where
                                                  the raid occurs

  Friendship Level        +0 to +4                Good Friend: +1, Great:
  (Highest with any                               +2, Ultra: +3, Best: +4
  raider)                                         (approximate values,
                                                  may vary slightly)

  Speed Bonus             +0 to +8 (varies)       Faster completion time
                                                  yields more balls (or
                                                  more Mega/Primal Energy
                                                  for those raid types)
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

\*Source: Adapted from.\[10\] Exact values for damage/speed tiers can
fluctuate with game updates.\*\
\
\* Trainers can use Berries (e.g., Golden Razz Berry, Silver Pinap
Berry) to improve their chances of a successful catch or increase candy
rewards.\
\* If the Raid Boss appears as a Shiny Pokémon during the capture
encounter, the catch is guaranteed (as long as a ball hits it).\[8\]\
\* If a trainer runs out of Premier Balls before catching the Boss, the
Boss will flee.

The capture phase introduces a secondary skill challenge (accurate Poké
Ball throwing) and resource management (Premier Balls, Berries), with
performance in the battle directly influencing the number of capture
attempts.

## **V. Comparative Analysis and Structured Rubric for Simulator Design**

To effectively design a versatile Raid Battle simulator, it is essential
to juxtapose the mechanics of the TCG (Official and Community variants)
and Pokémon GO systems, identifying commonalities, differences, and the
data required for accurate modeling.

### **A. Juxtaposition of TCG and Pokémon GO Raid Systems**

The three primary raid systems exhibit fundamental differences:

-   **Core Gameplay Loop:**

    -   **TCG (Official & Community):** Turn-based, strategic card play.
        > Players make discrete decisions about playing cards, attaching
        > energy, and selecting attacks.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Real-time action. Players continuously tap,
        > swipe, and activate abilities in response to a dynamic
        > battlefield.

-   **Player Input:**

    -   **TCG:** Focus on hand management, resource allocation (Energy,
        > Supporters), deck knowledge, and predicting opponent (Boss)
        > actions based on its potential card pool or attack deck.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Focus on reaction time (dodging), energy
        > management (for Charged Attacks), and sustained damage output
        > (tapping speed).

-   **Boss Representation & Behavior:**

    -   **TCG Official:** Physical card with high HP, predefined attacks
        > chosen by a separate Boss Attack Deck. Limited AI, behavior
        > driven by card draws.

    -   **TCG Community:** Physical card (HP often ignored), uses its
        > own TCG deck. Draws multiple cards, resolves all with auto-met
        > conditions, attacks randomly. More complex, potentially
        > volatile AI.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Digital entity with a large HP pool and a battle
        > timer. Uses Fast and Charged Attacks at set intervals or based
        > on an internal pattern. Shadow Bosses have an Enrage mechanic.

-   **Win Conditions:**

    -   **TCG Official:** Reduce Boss Pokémon\'s HP to 0.

    -   **TCG Community:** Mill the Boss\'s entire deck (send all its
        > cards to the Lost Zone).

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Reduce Boss Pokémon\'s HP to 0 within the battle
        > attempt timer.

-   **Loss Conditions:**

    -   **TCG Official:** Players\' Pokémon are collectively Knocked Out
        > 4 times.

    -   **TCG Community:** All players are eliminated by taking all
        > their own Prize cards.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Battle attempt timer expires before Boss is
        > defeated. (Overall raid fails if Boss is not defeated within
        > its 45-minute Gym presence).

-   **Complexity Drivers:**

    -   **TCG Official:** Managing limited Cheer cards, optimizing
        > damage with few Pokémon.

    -   **TCG Community:** Vast card interactions from full decks,
        > complex Boss turns due to multi-card plays, shared Supporter
        > resource management.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Pokémon stats, move data (damage, energy,
        > cooldowns), type matchups, stacking buffs (Weather,
        > Friendship, Party Power), real-time decision-making under time
        > pressure, relobby management.

-   **Cooperative Mechanics:**

    -   **TCG Official:** Cheer card effects benefiting the team or
        > hindering the Boss.

    -   **TCG Community:** Shared Supporter play limit, ability to
        > target allies with Supporters, verbal strategy.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Friendship damage bonus, Mega Evolution boosts
        > for all, Party Power, verbal coordination for attack timing or
        > relobbying.

### **B. Essential Data Points for Simulation**

A comprehensive simulator requires a structured representation of
various entities, their attributes, states, possible actions, and
critical events.

-   **Entities:**

    -   Player: Represents each human participant.

    -   RaidBoss: The primary antagonist.

    -   Pokémon: Individual creatures used by Players or as the
        > Boss/Reinforcements.

    -   Card (TCG-specific): Units within decks, hands, discard piles,
        > etc. Includes Pokémon, Trainer, Energy, Boss Attack, Cheer
        > cards.

-   **Key Attributes (Examples):**

    -   Pokémon: Current HP, Max HP, Attack Stat, Defense Stat, Special
        > Attack Stat, Special Defense Stat, Speed (if applicable),
        > Type(s), Moves (Name, Damage, Energy Cost/Gain, Effects,
        > Accuracy), Abilities, Held Item (TCG), Attached Energy (TCG),
        > CP (GO), IVs (GO).

    -   Player: Prize cards remaining (TCG Community), KO counters used
        > (TCG Official), Available Pokémon roster, In-game Party status
        > (GO).

    -   RaidBoss: Max HP (TCG Official, GO) or Deck Size (TCG
        > Community), Level/Tier, List of Attacks/Moves, Special
        > Rules/Abilities (e.g., Enrage, Energy type).

    -   Card (TCG): Name, Type (Pokémon, Trainer, Energy), Text/Effects.

-   **Key States (Examples):**

    -   GamePhase: PlayerTurn, BossTurn, SetupPhase, VictoryPhase.

    -   PokémonStatus: Active, Benched, KnockedOut, Fainted,
        > Stat-Modified (buffed/debuffed), Affected by Status Condition
        > (Poison, Burn, etc.).

    -   BossStatus: Enraged (GO Shadow), Shielded (if applicable to a
        > variant).

    -   Environment: Weather Active (GO), Stadium in Play (TCG).

    -   PlayerResourceStatus: Party Power Charged (GO), Cheer Card
        > Available (TCG Official), Supporter Play Available (TCG
        > Community).

-   **Key Actions (Examples):**

    -   **TCG:** PlayCard (from hand), AttachEnergy (from hand),
        > UseAttack, UseAbility, UseSupporter, UseItem, Retreat,
        > DrawCard, ShuffleDeck, SearchDeck, DiscardCard,
        > MoveToLostZone, TakePrizeCard, UseCheerCard.

    -   **GO:** UseFastAttack, UseChargedAttack, Dodge, SwitchPokémon,
        > ActivatePartyPower, UsePurifiedGem (Shadow Raids), HealPokémon
        > (outside active battle/relobby), MegaEvolve.

-   **Key Events (Examples):**

    -   DamageDealt, HPReduced, PokémonKnockedOut / PokémonFainted,
        > BossAttackCardDrawn, PlayerAttackSelected, CardDrawn (from
        > deck), CardMilled (to Lost Zone), TimerTick (GO),
        > WinConditionMet, LossConditionMet, StatusConditionApplied,
        > BuffApplied.

### **C. Proposed Rubric Framework**

The following table (SIM-1) provides a structured comparison of
mechanics across the raid systems, intended to serve as a foundational
rubric for simulator design. This granularity allows for modular
development, where individual mechanics can be implemented and
potentially configured or toggled, supporting accurate simulation of
each distinct raid type. It also helps distinguish core gameplay
mechanics essential for initial implementation from secondary or
\"flavor\" elements that might be added later.

**Table SIM-1: Comprehensive Rubric for Pokémon Raid Battle Simulation**

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Mechanic    **Sub-Mechanic/Parameter**   **TCG - Official      **TCG - Community  **Pokémon GO -     **Simulator
  Category**                                 Rules**               Variant**          Standard Gym       Implementation
                                                                                      Raid**             Notes/Variables**
  ------------- ---------------------------- --------------------- ------------------ ------------------ ---------------------
  **Setup**     Player Count                 4 players ^1^         Up to 4 players    Up to 20 trainers  Variable player
                                                                   (typically) ^3^    per lobby ^7^      slots; manage
                                                                                                         lobby/party systems
                                                                                                         for GO.

                Player Initial Resources     2 Pokémon cards each  Full standard TCG  Team of 6 Pokémon  TCG: Mode for limited
                                             (no Trainers/Energy)  deck (Pokémon,     from collection;   Pokémon vs. full deck
                                             ^1^                   Trainers, Energy), Raid Pass used ^7^ system. GO: Pokémon
                                                                   7-card hand, Prize                    selection interface,
                                                                   cards ^3^                             Raid Pass as entry
                                                                                                         condition (optional
                                                                                                         for pure sim).

                Boss \"Health\" Metric       High HP value on Boss Boss\'s deck size  High HP value,     Track HP for
                                             card ^2^              (e.g., 60 cards);  varies by Tier     TCG-Official/GO;
                                                                   HP on card often                      track deck count for
                                                                   ignored ^3^                           TCG-Community.

                Boss Initial State           Level determined by   No hand, no        Tier determines    TCG-Official: Boss
                                             sum of players\'      prizes, uses its   HP, moveset,       level calculation.
                                             Pokémon damage output own deck ^3^       battle timer       TCG-Community: Boss
                                             ^2^                                                         deck setup. GO: Tier
                                                                                                         selection defining
                                                                                                         Boss stats.

  **Player      Core Actions                 Optional Retreat,     Standard TCG       Tap for Fast       TCG: Turn-based
  Turn**                                     Attack Boss ^2^       actions (Play      Attack, Tap button action queue. GO:
                                                                   Trainers, Attach   for Charged        Real-time input
                                                                   Energy, Evolve,    Attack, Swipe to   processing (or AI for
                                                                   Attack, etc.) ^3^  Dodge ^7^          player actions if
                                                                                                         non-interactive sim),
                                                                                                         energy tracking.

                Special First Turn Rules     None specified beyond Evolve Pokémon     N/A (battle starts TCG-Community:
                                             standard turn.        freely, play       immediately)       Implement first-turn
                                                                   Supporters, can                       flags for special
                                                                   attack ^3^                            rules.

                Cooperative Action 1         Cheer Card (if KO\'d, Shared Supporter   Party Power        Implement distinct
                                             1 of 5 effects, max 3 limit (e.g., 4 for (charge via Fast   cooperative
                                             uses/game) ^2^        team); can target  Attacks in Party,  resource/mechanic
                                                                   allies with        next Charged       systems for each
                                                                   Supporters ^3^     Attack x2 damage)  mode. GO: Party Power
                                                                                      ^9^                charging/activation
                                                                                                         logic. TCG: Cheer
                                                                                                         card deck/effects,
                                                                                                         Supporter play
                                                                                                         tracking.

                Cooperative Action 2         N/A                   N/A                Friendship Damage  GO: Apply passive
                                                                                      Bonus (up to       damage bonuses based
                                                                                      +10%); Mega        on friendship/Mega
                                                                                      Evolution boosts   status.
                                                                                      team ^9^           

  **Boss Turn** Action Determination         Draw Boss Attack      Draw 1 + (1 per    Periodic           TCG-Official: Boss
                                             Card; follow          player) cards from Fast/Charged       Attack Deck logic.
                                             instructions (attack  own deck; resolve  Attacks based on   TCG-Community: Boss
                                             type, target, draw    all (auto-met      internal           deck draw/resolve
                                             again?) ^2^           conditions);       timer/pattern;     logic, random attack
                                                                   random attack      Shadow Bosses can  selection. GO: Boss
                                                                   choice ^3^         Enrage ^9^         AI for attack
                                                                                                         timing/selection;
                                                                                                         Enrage mechanic for
                                                                                                         Shadow Raids.

                Resource Usage               Attacks have no       Energy drawn is    Moves have         TCG-Community:
                                             energy cost on Boss   Rainbow Energy;    implicit energy    Rainbow energy
                                             card; driven by       discards energy    generation/cost as handling, energy
                                             Attack Cards ^2^      per attack cost    per standard GO    discard. GO: Standard
                                                                   ^3^                mechanics.         move energy
                                                                                                         simulation.

                Attack Limits                Max 2/3/4 attacks per Limited by cards   Limited by move    TCG-Official: Enforce
                                             turn based on Boss    drawn and energy   cooldowns and      attack cap.
                                             Level ^2^             available.         energy generation. 

  **Damage &    Damage to Boss               Player attacks reduce Player damage      Player attacks     Implement appropriate
  Effects**                                  Boss HP ^2^           converts to Boss   reduce Boss HP ^7^ damage application:
                                                                   deck cards Lost                       HP reduction or deck
                                                                   Zoned (e.g.,                          milling.
                                                                   (Players x10) dmg                     TCG-Community:
                                                                   = 1 card) ^3^                         \"Damage conversion
                                                                                                         rate\" as a variable.

                Player Pokémon KO            KO counter placed;    Player takes Prize Pokémon faints;    TCG-Official: KO
                                             player takes Cheer    cards from own     trainer can        counter tracking,
                                             turn ^2^              pile ^3^           relobby with       Cheer turn trigger.
                                                                                      new/revived team   TCG-Community: Player
                                                                                      if battle time     Prize card tracking.
                                                                                      remains ^7^        GO: Faint/relobby
                                                                                                         logic, relobby timer.

                Statuses/Other Effects       Attack text on player Full TCG card      Standard GO move   TCG: Full TCG effect
                                             cards (unless         effects apply      effects (stat      engine needed for
                                             optional rule ignores (Abilities,        changes rare in    Community variant.
                                             it) ^2^               Trainers, etc.)    raids, but         GO: Implement damage
                                                                   ^3^                possible). Weather multipliers.
                                                                                      boosts, STAB, Type 
                                                                                      Effectiveness ^16^ 

  **Win         How Players Win              Boss Pokémon HP       Boss Deck milled   Boss HP reduced to Implement distinct
  Condition                                  reduced to 0 ^2^      (0 cards left) ^3^ 0 within battle    win condition checks
  (Player)**                                                                          attempt timer ^7^  for each mode.

  **Loss        How Players Lose             Player Pokémon        All players        Battle attempt     Implement distinct
  Condition                                  collectively KO\'d 4  eliminated (taken  timer expires      loss condition
  (Player)**                                 times ^2^             all own Prize      before Boss HP is  checks. GO: Manage
                                                                   cards) ^3^         0. (Overall raid   multiple timers
                                                                                      lost if 45-min Gym (attempt vs. overall
                                                                                      timer expires) ^7^ raid availability).

  **Key         Unique Player Support        Cheer Cards (5 types, Shared Supporter   Party Power;       Model distinct
  Resources**                                max 3 used) ^2^       plays from own     Berries (capture   resource pools and
                                                                   deck; individual   phase);            activation/usage
                                                                   Trainer cards ^3^  Revives/Potions    conditions.
                                                                                      (relobby) ^9^      

                Unique Boss Trait            Boss Attack Deck;     Draws many cards,  High HP, fixed     Model unique Boss
                                             Level-based attack    auto-resolves,     moveset, potential behaviors and
                                             limit ^2^             Rainbow Energy,    Enrage (Shadow)    constraints per mode.
                                                                   random attack ^3^  ^9^                

  **Optional    Variability                  Ignore attack text;   Numerous community Shadow Raid        Design for
  Rules**                                    apply                 mods               mechanics          configurability.
                                             Weakness/Resistance   (Reinforcements,   (Enrage/Purified   Allow toggling
                                             ^2^                   CP-based scaling,  Gems) are a        official variants.
                                                                   etc.) ^5^          specific variant   Community mods or GO
                                                                                      ^9^                variants like Shadow
                                                                                                         Raids could be
                                                                                                         modules.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## **VI. Conclusion and Strategic Considerations for Simulator Development**

The analysis reveals that while \"Raid Battle\" is a shared concept, its
implementation across the Pokémon TCG (Official and Community variants)
and Pokémon GO presents fundamentally different gameplay experiences.
The TCG versions are turn-based and card-driven, emphasizing strategic
resource management and deck synergy (especially in the community
format). Pokémon GO raids are real-time, action-oriented encounters
demanding quick reflexes, sustained damage output, and effective use of
temporary buffs. An online simulator aiming to encompass these diverse
systems must be architected with flexibility and modularity at its core.

**Critical Mechanical Distinctions to Capture:**

-   **Core Interaction Model:** Turn-based discrete actions (TCG) versus
    > continuous real-time inputs (GO).

-   **Primary Player Objective:** Boss HP depletion (TCG Official, GO)
    > versus Boss deck depletion (TCG Community).

-   **Source of Boss Actions:** Dedicated Boss Attack Deck (TCG
    > Official), drawing from its own TCG deck (TCG Community), or
    > timed/patterned attacks (GO).

-   **Cooperative Elements:** Unique systems like Cheer Cards (TCG
    > Official), shared Supporter plays (TCG Community), and Party
    > Power/Friendship Bonuses (GO).

**Recommendations for Simulator Architecture:**

1.  **Modular Design:** A core engine could manage common elements like
    > Pokémon data (stats, types, moves, though moves function
    > differently across platforms). Mode-specific modules would then
    > implement the unique rulesets for TCG Official, TCG Community, and
    > Pokémon GO concerning turn structure, action resolution, Boss AI,
    > and win/loss conditions. This approach allows for easier
    > maintenance and future expansion to include other variants.

2.  **Data-Driven Design:** Key game data---such as Pokémon statistics,
    > move effects, TCG card text, Boss Attack card details, Cheer card
    > effects, Raid Boss HP/movepools for GO, and damage calculation
    > formulas---should be stored in external, easily editable data
    > files (e.g., JSON, XML). This facilitates updates as game rules
    > evolve (especially in Pokémon GO) or as new TCG cards are
    > released, and can also support community contributions or custom
    > content. The complexity of existing fan-made tools and databases
    > underscores the need for robust data management.^20^

3.  **Configurable Rulesets:** The simulator should allow users to
    > select the specific raid system they wish to engage with. For TCG
    > modes, offering toggles for optional rules (like applying
    > Weakness/Resistance in Official, or common community modifications
    > like different damage-to-mill rates) would significantly enhance
    > utility.

4.  **User Interface (UI) Adaptation:** The UI must adapt to the chosen
    > mode:

    -   **TCG:** Requires clear representation of player hands, the play
        > area (Active/Benched Pokémon, Stadium, etc.), discard piles,
        > Lost Zone, Prize cards, the Boss\'s card, and any active Boss
        > Attack or Cheer cards.

    -   **Pokémon GO:** Needs a dynamic display of the battle scene, HP
        > bars for player Pokémon and the Boss, energy meters for
        > Charged Attacks, visual cues for Boss attacks (for dodging),
        > and indicators for active buffs like Party Power or Weather.

**Handling Randomness and AI:**

-   **TCG:** Randomness is inherent in deck shuffling, drawing cards,
    > coin flips specified by card effects, and (in the community
    > variant) the Boss\'s random attack choice. The Boss AI will be
    > primarily script-driven based on its card draws.

-   **Pokémon GO:** Boss attack patterns may have some degree of
    > randomness or prioritization logic. Player actions in a
    > non-interactive simulation would require AI to mimic tapping,
    > dodging, and special attack usage, potentially with configurable
    > skill levels (e.g., \"perfect dodger,\" \"average dodger\"). Tools
    > like Pokebattler employ sophisticated simulations for GO,
    > suggesting the depth possible.^20^

Future Expansion Potential:

A well-architected simulator could be expanded to:

-   Incorporate more advanced TCG community modifications, such as
    > Reinforcement Decks.^5^

-   Add distinct Pokémon GO raid types like Shadow Raids (with
    > Enrage/Purified Gem mechanics) or potentially model aspects of
    > Elite Raids if desired.

-   Allow users to create custom Boss Pokémon or scenarios.

-   For TCG modes, integrate deck-building tools and allow users to
    > import/export decklists.

The development of such a simulator should prioritize accurately
capturing the core interactive experience of each raid type. While
predictive capabilities (e.g., calculating precise battle outcomes under
optimal conditions) are valuable, the primary goal indicated by the
request is a playable simulation. The provided rubric and analysis aim
to furnish a robust blueprint for achieving this, enabling developers to
create a flexible and engaging platform for experiencing Pokémon Raid
Battles across their varied instantiations.

#### Works cited

1.  Pokémon Trading Card Game Raid Battle, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://tcg.pokemon.com/en-us/raid-battle/]{.underline}](https://tcg.pokemon.com/en-us/raid-battle/)

2.  Raid Battle (TCG) - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon
    > encyclopedia, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Raid_Battle\_(TCG)]{.underline}](https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Raid_Battle_(TCG))

3.  TPCI Releases Alternative Play Handbook: Raid Format, 2v2 Team
    > Battles, & More!, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.pokebeach.com/2022/07/tpci-releases-alternative-play-handbook-raid-format-2v2-team-battles-more]{.underline}](https://www.pokebeach.com/2022/07/tpci-releases-alternative-play-handbook-raid-format-2v2-team-battles-more)

4.  Raid Format Deck suggestions : r/PTCGL - Reddit, accessed May 23,
    > 2025,
    > [[https://www.reddit.com/r/PTCGL/comments/1ddgo71/raid_format_deck_suggestions/]{.underline}](https://www.reddit.com/r/PTCGL/comments/1ddgo71/raid_format_deck_suggestions/)

5.  I have ideas on how to make the Raid Format harder! : r/PTCGL -
    > Reddit, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.reddit.com/r/PTCGL/comments/1jf8pjq/i_have_ideas_on_how_to_make_the_raid_format_harder/]{.underline}](https://www.reddit.com/r/PTCGL/comments/1jf8pjq/i_have_ideas_on_how_to_make_the_raid_format_harder/)

6.  I have ideas to make Raid Decks harder. : r/pkmntcg - Reddit,
    > accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.reddit.com/r/pkmntcg/comments/1jeraas/i_have_ideas_to_make_raid_decks_harder/]{.underline}](https://www.reddit.com/r/pkmntcg/comments/1jeraas/i_have_ideas_to_make_raid_decks_harder/)

7.  What are Raid Battles? --- Pokémon GO Help Center - Niantic Support,
    > accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://niantic.helpshift.com/hc/en/6-pokemon-go/faq/2187-what-are-raid-battles/]{.underline}](https://niantic.helpshift.com/hc/en/6-pokemon-go/faq/2187-what-are-raid-battles/)

8.  Raids - Pokemon GO Guide - IGN, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.ign.com/wikis/pokemon-go/raids]{.underline}](https://www.ign.com/wikis/pokemon-go/raids)

9.  GO Hub Guide to Raid Battles \| Pokémon GO Hub, accessed May 23,
    > 2025,
    > [[https://pokemongohub.net/post/guide/go-hub-guide-to-raid-battles/]{.underline}](https://pokemongohub.net/post/guide/go-hub-guide-to-raid-battles/)

10. Pokémon Go Raid Hour date and time, plus how Raids work, including
    > Raid Rewards and Raid level requirement - Eurogamer, accessed May
    > 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.eurogamer.net/pokemon-go-raid-hour-raid-battles-raid-passes-raid-rewards-4819]{.underline}](https://www.eurogamer.net/pokemon-go-raid-hour-raid-battles-raid-passes-raid-rewards-4819)

11. Pokemon GO Starter Guide for New Trainers, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://pogo.gamepress.gg/starter-guide]{.underline}](https://pogo.gamepress.gg/starter-guide)

12. Attack Strategies - Pokebattler, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://articles.pokebattler.com/attack-strategies/]{.underline}](https://articles.pokebattler.com/attack-strategies/)

13. Dodging Charged attacks in raids : r/TheSilphRoad - Reddit, accessed
    > May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.reddit.com/r/TheSilphRoad/comments/1femip3/dodging_charged_attacks_in_raids/]{.underline}](https://www.reddit.com/r/TheSilphRoad/comments/1femip3/dodging_charged_attacks_in_raids/)

14. Tera Raid Battle - Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon
    > encyclopedia, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Tera_Raid_Battle]{.underline}](https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Tera_Raid_Battle)

15. Tier 5 and Mega Raid Guides - Pokemon GO Wiki - GamePress, accessed
    > May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://pogo.gamepress.gg/tier-5-and-mega-raid-guides]{.underline}](https://pogo.gamepress.gg/tier-5-and-mega-raid-guides)

16. Weather Boosts --- Pokémon GO Help Center - Niantic Support,
    > accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://niantic.helpshift.com/hc/en/6-pokemon-go/faq/53-weather-boosts/]{.underline}](https://niantic.helpshift.com/hc/en/6-pokemon-go/faq/53-weather-boosts/)

17. Comprehensive guide to Moves in Pokemon GO \| Pokémon GO Hub,
    > accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://pokemongohub.net/post/wiki/comprehensive-guide-moves-pokemon-go/]{.underline}](https://pokemongohub.net/post/wiki/comprehensive-guide-moves-pokemon-go/)

18. Professor Willow\'s Handbook: Raids \| Pokebattler, accessed May 23,
    > 2025,
    > [[https://articles.pokebattler.com/professor-willows-handbook-raids/]{.underline}](https://articles.pokebattler.com/professor-willows-handbook-raids/)

19. Pokémon Go Max Battles explained, including how to Max Battle, how
    > to win and Max Battle rewards \| Eurogamer.net, accessed May 23,
    > 2025,
    > [[https://www.eurogamer.net/pokemon-go-max-battles-how-to-win-rewards-9404]{.underline}](https://www.eurogamer.net/pokemon-go-max-battles-how-to-win-rewards-9404)

20. Raid Simulator - Pokemon GO Pokebattler, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://www.pokebattler.com/battle]{.underline}](https://www.pokebattler.com/battle)

21. Poke Genie -Remote Raid IV PvP - App Store, accessed May 23, 2025,
    > [[https://apps.apple.com/ec/app/poke-genie-remote-raid-iv-pvp/id1143920524?l=en-GB]{.underline}](https://apps.apple.com/ec/app/poke-genie-remote-raid-iv-pvp/id1143920524?l=en-GB)